Components
main board, Bird Temple side (Snake Temple on other side)
1 double-sided supply board
12 assistant tiles 15 guardian tiles
10 level site tiles
6 level site tiles
15 rival action tiles used in solo variant
1 pad of scoring sheets
1 moon staff
1 starting player marker
16 tablet tokens 2 archaeologist figures in each color
1 notebook token and
1 magnifying glass token
in each color
12 arrowhead tokens 9 jewel tokens 10 reserve tiles 18 research bonus tiles 5 blocking tiles
27 coin tokens 16 idol tiles 24 temple tiles 27 compass tokens 4 double-sided player boards 1 sticker sheet
4 basic cards in each color
19 Fear cards
40 item cards
35 artifact cards
2Day 3 – After two fruitless days of searching empty ocean, a smudge on the horizon, barely discernible among the sparkling waves, gave me a glimmer of hope. As we drew nearer, a flock of brilliant scarlet birds flew toward our vessel, chirping and whistling as though in welcome. Consulting her charts, our navigator assured us that the island was indeed as yet uncharted. Her words supported a hypothesis we all silently shared – those rugged plateaus, that verdant jungle! – this could be Arnak!
Tutorial Video
cge.as/arv
3Setup
Main Board
Use the side with the Bird Temple for your first game.
The Snake Temple side follows special rules which are explained on page 19.
Card Row
The card row offers items and artifacts you can get during play. Be sure they are divided into separate decks. They have the same backs, but they can be easily distinguished by their faces and by the icon in the upper right corner.
1 Artifacts. Shuffle the artifacts deck face down and place it on the marked space.
2 Fear. Place the Fear cards on the marked space. They are all the same, so place them face up.
3 Items. Shuffle the items deck face down and place it on the marked space.
4 Moon Staff. Place the moon staff in the card row, as shown, indicating it is round I.
5 D eal 1 artifact to the card row, face up, to the left of the moon staff.
6 D eal 5 items to the card row, face up, to the right of the moon staff.Island Idol Tiles. Mix these up and randomly assign them to sites.
7 Level sites. Each site in region gets one face-up idol.
8 Level sites. Each site in region gets one face-up idol and one face-down idol, as depicted on the board. Blocking Tiles
9 S ome action spaces may need to be blocked depending on the number of players. Treat blocked spaces as though they were not printed on the board. They will be unavailable for the entire game. In a four-player game , do not use the blocking tiles. (This page illustrates a three-
player game.) In a three-player game , block 3 spaces. Mix up the blocking tiles face down and flip over 3 at random. Each corresponds to one site. U se the 3 tiles to block the space at each of those 3 sites. (On the board, place them face down.) Return the 2 unused tiles to the box. In a two-player game , block all 5 spaces. Each site will have space for only one archaeologist.
1
3
2
4
5
10
11
8
7
6
4One-Player Game
These components are used only in the solo variant . The solo variant uses the 2-player setup. Full rules are on page 20.Research Track
10
Temple Tiles. Make stacks of temple tiles on the temple. Each stack has as many tiles as there are players. As shown, 11-point tiles have one stack at the top, 6-point tiles have two stacks in the middle, 2-point tiles have three stacks at the bottom. Return unused tiles to the box. Research Bonus Tiles. Shuffle the tiles face down and deal them to:
11Lost Temple Bonus Stack. Make a stack with as many research bonus tiles as there are players. Place this stack face down at the top of the research track.
12Bonus Tile Spaces. Most spaces on the research track get 1 bonus tile. Spaces marked like this get a tile only in a four-player game .
These spaces get a tile only in a three- or four-player game . Distribute research bonus tiles randomly to the appropriate spaces, then turn them face up. Return unused tiles to the box.
Supply Board
13 Resources. Place all resource tokens on the supply board.
14 Level Site Tiles. Shuffle the site tiles marked and place them face down on the supply board.
15 Guardian Tiles. Shuffle the guardians and place them face down on the supply board.
16 Level Site Tiles. Shuffle the site tiles marked and place them face down on the supply board.
17 Assistant Tiles. Turn all assistants silver side up. Shuffle them into 3 random stacks of 4 tiles each. Place them on the supply board.
18 Research Tokens. Players’ research tokens also go on the supply board, as will be explained on the next page.
9
12
13
15
14
16
17 18
5Exploration Exploration Funding Funding Fear Fear
Player Setup
Each player should choose a color and take the player board, research tokens, 2 archaeologist figures, and 4 basic cards in that color. Day 6 – We found a good place to pitch our tents, with fresh water nearby. Our quartermaster has ensured we will be well supplied. For the fortnight, this shall be our home.
Your Starting Deck
Each player has their own deck, and all decks start the same. Your deck should have the 4 basic cards in your color, plus 2 Fear cards:
Shuffle your deck and place it face down on your player board.
Play Order The starting player is the one who most recently traveled to a place they had never visited before. Give this player the starting player marker . Play will proceed clockwise. Starting Resources
Starting resources depend on play order, as shown.
Player 1: Player 2: Player 3: Player 4: Recommended Table Layout
Player boards can sit around the main board like this. 2 Funding cards 2 Fear cards2 Exploration cardsResearch Tokens
Your research tokens go on a starting space below the research track. The first time you research, you will use your magnifying glass, so place it atop the notebook. your deckyour archaeologistsspaces for using idols you discover
Thematically, your archaeologists are in the tents and your resource tokens are in the supply crates, but you can organize this space however you want.Player Board
Keep your player board in front of you and set the archaeologist figures on it.
spaces for assistants you recruit
rewards you can get from using idols
6Day 7 – How strange it is to be here, to finally see what we have strived so long to find! I feel, sometimes, as though we are encamped on sacred ground. What wonders lie ahead? What dangers? We have no inkling of the secrets this island holds, but we vowed to unveil them, and that we shall do!Gameplay
Game Overview
The game is played over 5 rounds.
Players take turns choosing various actions that help them uncover the secrets of the island. Over the course of the game, more of the island will be explored and more actions will become available. Actions can earn you resources, opportunities, and points. Each round proceeds as follows:1. Draw. All players draw from their decks until they have a hand of 5 cards .
2. Take turns. The player with the starting player marker starts. Players take turns clockwise around the table. You are limited to one main action on your turn, plus an unlimited number of free actions .
3. Pass. On your turn, you may pass to indicate you are done playing for the remainder of the round. The other players continue taking turns until all players have passed.
4. Set up for the next round. All cards in your play area are shuffled and returned to the bottom of your deck . The board is set up for the next round. The starting player marker is passed to the left.
5. M ove the moon staff. At the end of each round, move the moon staff to mark the passage of time. As the moon waxes, the expeditions explore the island, acquire useful items and artifacts, and research the legends of Arnak. After 5 rounds, the moon is full and it is time to see who led the most successful expedition.Goal of the Game
Your task is to lead an expedition to explore the uncharted island of Arnak and discover the secrets of a vanished civilization.
You will equip your expedition with useful items, search the jungles for mysterious artifacts and intriguing archaeological sites, struggle to overcome the guardians of those sites, and – perhaps most importantly – piece together the fragments of Arnak’s ruins into a coherent body of research that could lead to the discovery of the Lost Temple.
Your expedition’s various accomplishments are worth points which will be added up at the end of the game to determine which player has led the most successful expedition.
Resources
Coins represent funding for your expedition. They are used to buy items. Compasses represent time and energy spent exploring the island. Thus, they are used to discover artifacts and new archaeological sites. Tablets represent ancient texts you can decipher. These texts might teach you how to use the artifacts you find. Arrowheads represent remnants of weapons you discover. They are often necessary for overcoming the guardians of the island. Jewels are mysterious talismans of the bird god Ara-Anu. They are hard to find, but often essential for completing your research into the mysteries of Arnak.
7 Free Actions
An effect with this icon does not count as the main action of your turn. On your turn, you can play as many free actions as you like. They can be played before, after, and even during your main action .
Funding Travel Value
You can use this travel value to pay for certain actions – like the Dig at a Site action on the facing page.
Funding Effect
You can play the card for its effect.Your Hand
You can play a card either for its travel value or its effect but not both.Your Turn or Funding Fear
Fear
Exploration Exploration Your Play Area
When you use a card, it goes face up on the table in front of you, next to your player board. This space is called your play area.
Your play area is basically a spread-out discard pile. Cards accumulate from turn to turn. They are not recycled into your deck until the end of the round.
Fear Funding Exploration On your turn, you have several options. Your choices will depend on the cards in your hand and the situation on the game board.
Main Actions
On your turn you may perform one main action plus an unlimited number of free actions . Main actions are:
Dig at a Site (page 9) Discover a New Site (page 10) Overcome a Guardian (page 11) Buy a Card (page 12) Play a Card (page 13) Research (page 14)
Pass (page 17)Day 8 – Though our eagerness to begin is mixed with a certain amount of trepidation, now is not the time to let our courage fail. If there are dangers, well, we came here to confront them. To the jungle then, and no delay! Fear
A Fear card has no effect. Howe ver, it can be used for its travel value.
Play Area
Player Board
This effect means you take a token from the supply board.
8 Parrot
Exile this card to with a discount of – if discovering a new site, you also have a discount of .Hot Air Balloon with a discount of – if discovering a new site, you also have a discount of .Aeroplane
Activate a site you occupy. If it is a site, you must first pay .Tent
Fear
Activate a site you occupy. If it is a site, you must first pay .Tent Serpent Idol Serpent Idol Examples: with a discount of – if discovering a new site, you also have a discount of .Aeroplane
Gain for each on sites you occupy and each you have overcome, up to 3.Bow and Arrows
Gain for each on sites you occupy and each you have overcome, up to 3.Bow and Arrows Parrot
Activate a site you occupy. If it is a site, you must first pay .Tent
Sea Turtle with a discount of .
As your main action for your turn, you can send one of your archaeologists to dig at any of the 5 sites. You will also be able to dig at and sites after they have been discovered. To Dig at a Site
1. P ay the travel cost depicted on the space to which you want to send your archaeologist. The space must be unoccupied. (That is, it must have no archaeologist figure on it, and in a 2- or 3-player game, it must have no blocking tile.)
2. Move your archaeologist from your player board to that space.
3. Resolve the effect depicted at the site. (A full key of icons is on the back page of this rulebook.)
Note: If both your archaeologists are already on sites, you cannot take this action.
Example: Red spends a card with a to send her archaeologist to the site illustrated here. She places her figure on the space and takes two tokens. The next player to use the site this round will need to cover a cost of . Even Red could do this, on a later turn, despite having one archaeologist already there. If both spaces are occupied, no one else can be sent to dig there this round.
Paying Travel Costs Fear
You can use the on your Fear card to pay a travel cost of .As you would expect, you can pay a cost of by spending a card with the icon – take the card from your hand, and put it face up into your play area, ignoring its effect. You can also pay with higher travel values, as shown in the Travel Hierarchy on this page.
Two Icons
If a cost requires two icons, you can cover it with travel values from two sources.
Sea Turtle with a discount of .
It’s also possible that you have a card that gives you two icons all by itself. Such a card can also cover a one-icon cost, but in that case, the extra icon will probably be wasted. It does not carry over to your next turn.Dig at a Site
Travel Hierarchy
You can always pay a cost by spending a higher travel value . This travel hierarchy is also on your quick reference sheet.This site has two spaces for archaeologists.
Hiring a Pilot You can always spend two coins to generate a plane which can be used to pay for any travel icon, as shown in the Travel Hierarchy below. Day 9 – We brought a ladder to the site and climbed to get a better look at the carvings. As we had hoped, it was writing! If such wonders lie so close to camp, who knows what we shall find once we truly begin to explore! pays for anything. Any travel value pays for . cannot pay for and vice versa.
9Exploration At the beginning of the game, only 5 sites are available for digging. But during play, you can find new ones. You can discover any or site that does not yet have a site tile.
To Discover a New Site
1 T raverse the wilderness. Decide whether you want to discover a site or a site. Check the board, and pay the depicted cost . Then choose an undiscovered site in that region and pay the travel cost to move your archaeologist from your board to that site’s space.
2 T ake the idol. Immediately resolve the idol’s effect. If the site has two idols, you take them both, but use only the effect of the face-up one. Keep your idols on your player board face down on the illustrated supply crates.
3 Discover the site. Take the top tile from the stack that matches the site – or . Place it on the board face up. The site has now been discovered and you immediately resolve its effect .
4 A waken the guardian. Draw the top tile from the guardian stack and place it face up on the site tile.
The guardian does not affect you immediately. However, at the end of the round you will gain a Fear card when you take your archaeologist back from a site that has a guardian on it. (See page 17.)
To avoid this, you may try to overcome the guardian as an action on a later turn. (See the facing page.) Or you might be able to escape the guardian with the help of certain cards that allow you to move your archaeologist or the guardian.
Once your archaeologist is gone (for example, in a later round) the discovered site is another place archaeologists can be sent to dig . The cost printed on the board applies only when you discover these sites, not when you dig. You can send an archaeologist to dig at a site that still has a guardian; returning from such a site at the end of the round gives you a Fear card, even if you were not the one who awoke the guardian.Discover a New Site
1
2
3
4Day 10 – Our archaeology team returned with fantastic tales of dwellings in the cliffs adorned with lapidary masterpieces still intact. Yet their joy at their discovery was mingled with dread of the monster that lurked above.
10Guardians
Mysterious creatures guard the ruins on the island. A guardian appears whenever a player discovers a new site. The guardian has no immediate effect. However, at the end of the round, you gain a Fear card for each archaeologist returning from a site that still has a guardian. (See page 17.)
Guardians remain on the board until they are overcome. They do not prevent archaeologists from digging at their sites. To Overcome a Guardian
As your turn’s main action, you may overcome a guardian. You must have an archaeologist on the guardian’s site.
1. Pay the cost depicted at the bottom of the guardian tile.
2. Remove the guardian from the board and keep it by your player board.
Idols
You find idols when you discover new sites. When you get an idol, keep it on the supply crates on your player board. Idols should be face down because the discovery reward is no longer relevant.
Each idol will be worth 3 points at the end of the game.
Idol Slots
The four slots at the top of your board give you access to useful effects. On your turn, you may put an idol in a slot as a free action :
1. Move the idol from your supply crates to the leftmost unoccupied slot on your player board.
2. Choose one effect from the five depicted options.But use the idol’s power wisely! Each of the four slots will be worth a certain number of points if it is still empty at the end of the game.
An idol in a slot cannot be moved , so each slot can be used only once per game. (Unless you find an artifact that allows you to bend this rule.)Tip: In some situations, it can be very important to overcome a guardian and avoid its Fear card. In other situations, you can get more points by saving those resources for research. Don’t feel compelled to overcome every guardian you awaken. This effect allows you to overcome a guardian on a site where you have an archaeologist without paying the cost . (However, the effect itself may have a cost, which you must pay.) Guardians overcome in this way still go beside your player board.Overcome a Guardian
Day 11 – We fought the monstrous creature hand to hand, knife to claw! The beast went down! But none could strike the death blow. We stood in awe. The beast bowed its head, acknowledging us. And we realized, then, that this was no monster. No, this creature was one of Arnak’s legendary guardians.
Using a Guardian’s Boon
Having overcome the guardian, you have earned its respect, and it can grant you the boon depicted in the upper right corner. The boon can be used once during the game , on any of your turns. After using the boon, turn the guardian face down to show that the boon cannot be used again. Some boons are travel values that can be used to pay a travel cost, just like spending cards from your hand.
Other boons are free actions, which can be used at any time during any of your turns.
The guardian will be worth 5 points at the end of the game whether you use its boon or not.
guardian’s boon
pay this to overcome
possible idol slot effects
11Buy a Card
You improve your deck by buying artifacts and items from the card row.
Card Row Overview
The card row is divided into two parts by the moon staff:
Artifacts are on the left; items are on the right. Each round, the moon staff moves one space to the right, so each round has more artifacts and fewer items. As the expeditions explore deeper and deeper into the heart of the island, they discover more artifacts, while diminishing the support they can get from the mainland.
Exile
Certain rules and effects send cards into exile , which is located at the top of the main board. Items and artifacts have special exile piles near their decks. Fear cards go back to the Fear deck when they are exiled. Funding and Exploration cards should go near the Fear deck when they are exiled. Except for Fear cards, the cards in exile usually don’t come back into play. This symbol marks the artifact and item exile piles on the board. If you see this symbol in an effect, it means you may exile a card from your hand or from your play area .
Tip: If possible, it is more efficient to use a card and then exile it from your play area, rather than exiling it from your hand.artifact deck
Refilling the Card Row
At the end of your turn, if the card row is missing a card, refill the row with a card of the same type:
1. Slide cards toward the moon staff to make a space on the end.2. Deal a new card to that empty space.
If a deck runs out of cards, then for cards of that type, you no longer slide cards and refill the row. Items
You can buy useful items to equip your expedition. An item you buy goes to the bottom of your deck , which means it will usually show up in your hand at the beginning of the next round.
To Buy an Item
1. C hoose an item in the card row.
2. Pay the cost depicted at the bottom of the card.
3. Put the item face down on the bottom of your deck.
4. Refill the card row. Artifacts
Artifacts are valuable treasures you find while exploring the island. You pay for them with tokens, representing time spent exploring. We’ll say that you “buy” the card, even though your expedition is actually searching for it by whacking through the jungle and trekking across the rocky plains. Unlike items, an artifact can be used as soon as you take it from the card row.
To Buy an Artifact
1. C hoose an artifact in the card row.
2. Pay the cost depicted at the bottom of the card.
3. Move the artifact to your play area. You have the option to immediately resolve its effect, ignoring the cost in the corner.
4. Refill the card row.Note: When you buy an artifact, you get to resolve its effect. That effect might be another action, like sending an archaeologist to dig at a site. All this is considered to be part of your main action for the turn.Day 12 – I climbed a rock and cleared some branches to gain a better view of the path ahead. When I climbed down, the rock was now in sunlight, and I saw it was actually a priceless artifact.
Example: This is the card row in round II. You bought an item, so you will refill the row with an item, as shown. If you had bought an artifact, the new artifact would fill in from the other direction.
current round
items
item deck
moon staff
artifact
cost to buy cost to buy
points at the end of the game
12Play a Card
Playing Artifact Cards When we found it, we thought we understood it. But now I begin to suspect the artifact hides yet more mysteries. Perhaps we shall find the answers in these ancient texts. Pay to activate any 2 different sites.Star Charts
All artifact effects have a cost in the corner. When you buy the artifact, this cost is ignored and you perform the effect without paying it. But whenever you play the artifact’s effect from your hand, the cost must be paid.
The artifact’s effect may have other costs as well. These other costs must be paid every time you use the effect.Exile
Certain rules and effects send cards into exile , which is located at the top of the main board. Items and artifacts have special exile piles near their decks. Fear cards go back to the Fear deck when they are exiled. Funding and Exploration cards should go near the Fear deck when they are exiled. Except for Fear cards, the cards in exile usually don’t come back into play. T his symbol marks the artifact and item exile piles on the board. If you see this symbol in an effect, it means you may exile a card from your hand or from your play area .
Tip: If possible, it is more efficient to use a card and then exile it from your play area, rather than exiling it from your hand. Parrot
Example: Let’s say you use your turn to play the Parrot. It goes face up into your play area, and you resolve its effect. This effect tells you to use up a card to gain a jewel. Looking through your hand, you decide to use up a Funding card. Put it into play, but ignore its effect. You won’t get to use it as a coin this round, but the price is worth it: Take a jewel token from the supply board. This ends your turn, unless you have free actions you want to play.To Play a Card
1. P lay the card from your hand face up into your play area.
2. Resolve the card’s effect.
The card remains face up in your play area for the remainder of the round (unless you get a chance to exile it, as explained below). An effect with this icon is a free action . That means playing the card does not count as your main action for the turn. Your Funding and Exploration cards have effects that are free actions, and some item effects are free actions, too.
On the other hand, if the effect is not marked as a free action, it is the main action for your turn. All artifact effects are main actions , as are some item effects, like the one on the Parrot .
When you play an artifact, you also have to pay a special cost, as explained in the box on this page. That rule does not apply to items.
Reminder: A card in hand can either be spent for its travel value or played for its effect. Not both. Parrot
Day 13 – Ruby is a jaunty bird and I am glad we have her. She finds the most interesting things.
13Research
Day 14 – A shattered spear. Some lines of text. Each lends meaning to the other. I take the time to contemplate these clues to Arnak’s past.
The Lost Temple
When your magnifying glass reaches the top row of the research track, you have discovered the Lost Temple! Unlike the other rows, you get more points if you get here earlier. Place your magnifying glass on the remaining empty space worth the most points. Then take a bonus tile . Look through the stack of face-down tiles and choose one. Return the others. There are just enough for everyone.
Note: It is not possible to move your notebook token to the Lost Temple row.
Exploring the Lost Temple
Once you have found the Lost Temple, you can use later research actions to discover Arnak’s stories!
If you choose to research with your magnifying glass when it is already in the Lost Temple, instead of paying to advance the token, you pay to take 1 temple tile from any one of the stacks.
At the bottom of the temple are three different costs you can pay. Each stack of tiles has a particular combination of costs, as illustrated on the right. For example, the 6-point stack on the left requires you to pay the two costs on the left. The 6-point stack on the right requires you to pay the two costs on the right. The 11-point stack at the top requires you to pay all three costs.
Tiles in each stack are limited. You can’t buy tiles from a stack that is empty.A research action moves one of your research tokens up to the next row of the research track:
1 D ecide which research token to move. If your notebook is below your magnifying glass , you may move either token. However, your notebook must never move to a row above your magnifying glass . (This is easy to remember: First you discover something; then you write it down.)
2 C hoose a space to move into. You can only move up into a space that is connected to your current space . Sometimes this leaves you with only one choice. Don’t worry about other research tokens – multiple tokens can share the same space.
3 P ay the cost and move into the space. The cost is printed on the bridge connecting your old space with your new space.
4 G ain the results of your research: ◊ Take a bonus tile? If the space has a face-up research bonus tile, immediately gain the depicted bonus and remove the bonus tile from the game. Only the first player to reach that space gets the bonus. ◊ You always resolve the row’s effect. The effect depends on whether you moved your magnifying glass or your notebook, as depicted on the end of the row. (Ignore the points for now. Those points will be scored at the end of the game, based on where your tokens end up.) You are allowed to resolve the row’s effect before using the bonus tile, if you want.
Note: Costs must be paid before any rewards are gained.
1
2
3
4
combination of costs for this stack
3 different costs
14Where Can You Move?
Blue and Red each have their magnifying glasses on different spaces in the first row. Blue’s space is connected to both spaces in the next row, so Blue could move up to either one. Red’s space, however, is connected to only one space in the next row.
All other tokens are on the starting spaces. Tokens on the starting spaces can advance to either space in the first row.
Yellow can advance his magnifying glass. He can’t advance his notebook until his magnifying glass is at least one row ahead of it.
Research Action
On her turn, Red decides to research with her magnifying glass. She pays to advance to the next space. She removes the research bonus tile and gains a token. The tile goes back to the box and the token goes to her board. (Note that it is impossible to use this token to pay for the research cost – the cost must be paid first.) Looking at the magnifying glass effect on the right, she sees that she gains 1 .
Gaining an Assistant
On Blue’s turn, he decides to research with his notebook. It is not legal to move his notebook ahead of his magnifying glass, but he can move it into the same row and even the same space, if he wants. Let’s say he does that. Blue pays to move his notebook into the space with his magnifying glass. Blue gets to choose one of the 3 assistants available on the supply board. Blue takes the assistant and puts it silver side up on his player board. Assistants will be explained in detail on the next page.
points at the end of the game
15 Assistants
Assistants are people who have come to join your expedition. Each assistant has two levels – silver and gold. The gold side has the stronger effect. The research track will give you silver assistants when you move your notebook token to certain rows. Recruiting Assistants When you move your notebook to a row with this symbol, choose one of the assistants available on the supply board. (Usually, there are 3; however, some of the stacks might be empty later in the game.) Note: Assistants not on top are supposed to be kept hidden so that no one knows what they are until the assistant above them has been taken.
Set the assistant on one of the assistant squares on your player board. The silver side should be face up.
Assistants have various effects. If the effect is a free action, you have the option to use it immediately, or you can save it for later. Using Assistants
To use your assistant, turn it sideways, as shown. A sideways assistant is exhausted and not available for use.
In general, you can use an assistant’s effect only once per round. At the end of the round, all assistants are refreshed – turned right way up again. However, certain card effects might refresh an assistant during the round, allowing it to be used again, perhaps even immediately.
Upgrading Assistants When you move your notebook to a row with this symbol, upgrade one of your assistants to the gold level – that is, you flip it over to its gold side. At this time, the assistant is refreshed even if its silver-level effect was used earlier in the round.
Assistants have a variety of effects:
Silver level assistant.
Using this assistant is a free action.
Example: Blue uses his assistant to get a . Then he pays to advance his notebook token. The notebook effect from that row allows him to upgrade an assistant. He can upgrade either one.
Blue chooses to upgrade the assistant he already used. He flips the tile over. As part of the effect, the assistant is refreshed. He could use it again right now, if he wanted.
Assistant’s effect.
Ability that the assistant receives once upgraded. Some assistants offer a choice of effects. As a free action, you can use this assistant to get a . Alternatively, you can use it to get a .
This assistant needs a to make you a . You can pay the travel cost the same way you pay travel costs for archaeologist actions. Because this is a free action, it makes it possible to use a card with for two things: For example, one could pay for this assistant’s effect, and the other could pay for sending an archaeologist to Dig at a Site.
This assistant allows you to buy an artifact or an item with a discount. The discount is 1 on this side and 2 on the upgraded side. This assistant has no free action icon, so using this assistant counts as your turn’s main action .
16On your turn, you can choose to pass – inform the other players that you will take no more turns this round. Passing counts as your main action for the turn. At this time, you should also use up any free actions you still have available.
Once you have passed, you get no more turns for the rest of the round. The flow of play continues clockwise, but it skips over you. And conversely, if you are the only player left who has not yet passed, then you can take multiple turns in a row.
The round ends when all players have passed.
If it is not the end of round V, you end the round by setting up for the next one.
All players simultaneously do the following:1. Return both of your archaeologists to your player board. Each time you take back an archaeologist from a site with a guardian, add 1 Fear card to your play area.
2. Usually your hand will be empty. But if you have cards left, each card can be discarded to your play area or saved for the next round. Tip: Use all your cards during your turn, if you can. Keeping a card in your hand for next round is useful only in rare cases.
3. Gather all cards in your play area, shuffle them thoroughly, and put them face down on the bottom of your deck . Note: Items you bought during the round will now be above all the cards you just shuffled.
4. Refresh your assistants. (Turn them right way up again.)
The card row should be adjusted as follows:
1. Exile the two cards on either side of the moon staff. (This gets rid of 1 artifact and 1 item. Exile is explained on page 13.)
2. Move the moon staff to the right to indicate the number of the next round.
3. Refill the card row (as explained on page 12).
The starting player marker moves one place to the left – there will be a new starting player in the new round.
Start the new round by drawing until you have a full hand of 5 cards. If your deck does not have enough cards to make a full hand, just draw them all.
End of Round V
At the end of round V, all players take back their archaeologists and gain Fear from guardians . Skip all the other steps and proceed to final scoring.Passing
Setup for Next RoundWe have discovered such wonders today! Who knows what we shall find tomorrow? OR Pass to gain .Watch
Some effects may require you to pass as part of their cost.
Card Row Setup Example:
End of round I, setting up for round II.
During setup for round III, one artifact slides.
17Final Scoring
Day 18 — I feel like this island still holds many secrets, but the time has come to return home and share our findings.
At the end of the game, record everyone’s points on the scoring sheet and add them up. Points can come from the following sources: Each of your research tokens scores points based on its row. Magnifying glasses in the Lost Temple row will score points based on the order in which they reached the Lost Temple. Each of your temple tiles scores the amount shown on the tile.
Each of your idols scores 3 points, even if it is in a slot. Also add in the points shown in empty idol slots .
Each guardian you overcame is worth 5 points, whether you used the boon or not. Each i tem and artifact card scores the amount of points shown in the lower right corner.
Fear cards score -1 point each. If you have fear tiles (see page 23), they score -2 points each.
Whoever has the most points wins. Break ties in favor of the player who reached the Lost Temple first. If no one reached the Lost Temple, break ties in favor of the player with the highest research score. After that, players who are still tied remain tied.
A game by Mín & ElwenSpecial thanks to our most active testers: Kuba Kutil for always finding a way to break our early prototypes and being a huge help in the final balancing of the game as well as testing of the solo game; Pavla Ferstová and Ivan “eklp” Dostál for being big fans since the first prototypes and playtesting over a dozen versions of this game throughout its evolution; Vít Vodička for mastering the game and providing valuable balancing feedback.
Testers: Martin “Intoš” Sedmera, Laďa Pospěch, David Nedvídek, Iva Nedvídková, Regina Urazajeva, Tomáš Helmich, Filip Murmak, Miroslav Felix Podlesný, Jan Zvoníček, Tomáš Uhlíř, Matúš Kotry, Petr Murmak, Vlaada Chvátil, Rumun, Monča, Leontýnka & Kryštof, Jirka Doušek, Tomáš Dvořák, Pavel Ježek, Viol Balajková, Lea Belejová, Fanda Sedláček, Ondra Skoupý, Tony Gullotti, Justin Sweigart, Tyler Goble, Radim Pech, Jakub Doucek, Honza Bartoš, Zuzana Zadražilová, Tomáš Zadražil, Jana Mikulová, Petr Čáslava, Jakub Politzer, Ladislav “Aillas” Pechal, Juraj, Danielka, Ben, Fero & Dominika, Zuzka & Miroslav Dzurenda, Juraj Butek, Filip Sochor, Lukáš “Colombo” Wiesner, Eliška & Stanislav Kubeš, Petr Ovesný, Adam Španěl, Matt Wolfe, Martin Doležal, Ondra Černoch, Honzík Šafra, Yuri Sulík, Petr “Peca” Palička, Antonín Jan Palička, chasník, Lucia Chrastinová, Aleš Vítek, Michal Kopřiva, Jakub Uhlíř, Pavel Češka, Petr Marek, Tomáš Vician, Anežka Seberová, Michal Ringer, Olda Rejl, Martin Cetkovský, Martin Váňa, Tomáš Sládek, R.A., Yuyka & Ese Šabata, Václav Horák, Matúš Sedlák, Dan Knápek, Lumír Kvita, Kristián “Christheco” Buryš, Bára “CP” Siptáková, Adam “Adamin” Sipták, Dora “Cingilingi” Cidlinská, Michal “Meysha” Stárek, Ailin & Faire, Krtek & Kristýna, Melisilme & Findar, Julie “Peri” Tomaňová, and all other great people we met at the Brno board game club, during CGE playtesting, and other events. Without you, this game would not be possible!
Big shout out to everyone on our CGE team! Filip for all the enthusiasm with which he delved into the quest of making the game look this good. Petr for his dedication to the project, always ready to fix any problem thrown in our way. Regi for helping us with many of our responsibilities and working relentlessly on the game marketing. Jason for being so friendly and positive while working tirelessly to make the rulebook this good. Zvonda for keeping track of thousands of deadlines. Finder for the fantastic trailer and 3D models. Míša and Fanda for helping with graphic design. Vlaada for sharing his experience, feedback, and cool ideas! David, Honza, Dita, and everyone else who helped to prepare countless prototypes, to test and proofread everything! Thank you for being part of this journey!
Many thanks to: Ailín and Faire, who helped and supported us throughout the project – without their help we would not have had the time and tools to finalize the game design. Nand for creating the fantastic nanDECK and Paul Grogan for introducing our game to the world in a sad time of canceled conventions in 2020.
Very special thanks to: Ondra Hrdina, Milan Vavroň, Kuba Politzer, Jirka Kůs, and Fanda Sedláček, who helped to build the amazing world of Arnak and made it alive with their stunning art that took our breath away!
© Czech Games Edition October 2020 www.CzechGames.comMichal Štach Michaela Štachová
Filip MurmakJakub PolitzerOndřej Hrdina Milan Vavroň Jiří Kůs František Sedláček
Radim “Finder” PechDávid JablonovskýVít VodičkaJason HoltJan ZvoníčekPetr MurmakDevelopment Team: Graphic Design:
Art Direction:
Art: 3D Art:
Art Consultation:
Production:
Rulebook Writer:
Project Management:
Project Supervision:
18The Snake Temple Side
The first expedition to Arnak went rather poorly. No one has heard from them in quite some time. While you explore the island, keep your eye out for any survivors. Different board
The Snake Temple side has sites with different travel costs and a different research track. Assistant Rescue
This space in the middle of the research track has survivors from the first expedition. You might be able to rescue one of them if you explore the island’s ruins.
During setup, deal 1 assistant per player to this space . These assistants should be selected randomly. The assistant on top of the stack is public knowledge, but the identities of those underneath should be unknown to players who have not yet reached that row.
The supply board will get three stacks of assistants, as usual. Two of the stacks will have three assistants, and the third stack will have all remaining assistants.
To advance a research token across this bridge, you must pay 1 idol . The idol must come from your supply crates – it can’t be one of those in a slot. Remove the idol tile from the game.
This magnifying glass effect lets you rescue 1 assistant from those on the research track. Look through the stack secretly and take one. Keep the remaining assistants in the same order and return the stack to the research track.
Unlike assistants from the supply board, the assistant you rescue is exhausted . You won’t be able to use it this round unless an effect refreshes it.
Example: Red wants to advance her magnifying glass to the assistant rescue space.
1. She removes an idol from her supply crates and returns it to the box.
2. She advances her magnifying glass.
3. She looks through the stack of assistants and selects the sea captain.
4. The sea captain is exhausted from being marooned on Arnak so long. Red will not be able to use his ability until he is refreshed.
This effect allows you to upgrade an assistant from silver to gold. (On the other side of the board, you could do this only when moving your notebook.) If you have two silver assistants, you can upgrade either one – you don’t have to keep track of which assistant is the one you rescued.
As usual, an exhausted assistant is refreshed when it is upgraded.
Dreadful Tales!
At first, we dismissed his stories as hallucinations resulting from the traumatic experience of being stranded for so long, but as we uncovered more secrets of Arnak … This magnifying glass effect means you gain a Fear card ! Place it face up in your play area, ignoring its travel value. During setup, you dealt 2 or 3 bonus tiles to this row of the research track. When you move a research token there – magnifying glass or notebook – you choose one of the tiles . Only the tile you choose is removed.Our ship was nothing left. We tried to but I fear that even here it shall find us!
19Solo Variant
We thought we had kept this secret to ourselves. Somehow, others are here ahead of us! This solo variant allows you to enjoy the thrill of discovering the lost ruins even without another player to compete against.
Setup
Set up the board as you do for a 2-player game. Whenever a stack is supposed to have a number of tiles equal to the number of players, give it 2 tiles.
Set up your own board as usual. You play second, so start with 1 and 1 .
Rival Setup
Choose another player board to represent the rival expedition. Use the side with the gray tents. Give it all 6 archaeologist figures not in your color.
Your rival uses only one research token . Put your rival’s magnifying glass on a starting space next to your research tokens.
Rival Action Stack
Build your rival’s action stack with 10 action tiles.Use all 5 archaeologist action tiles:
Use 5 red or green action tiles:
The action tiles come in pairs. The red action is a more aggressive version of the green action. All 5 actions need to be in the stack, so you need one tile from each pair . The set of 5 unused tiles should be returned to the box.
The number of red tiles is your difficulty level, from 0 to 5. Decide how many red tiles to use, choose that many red tiles randomly, look at them, and add the appropriate green tiles to complete the set. Shuffle the rival action stack face down, and you are ready to play.Gameplay
Always one step ahead, your rival is the starting player in all 5 rounds. Your rival’s turn works like this:
1. Turn up your rival’s top action tile and place it beside the action stack.
2. Resolve the indicated action. If the situation makes the action impossible, your rival does nothing on that turn.
During the round, your rival and you alternate turns, as you would in a two-player game. Your rival does not pass until they have played all 10 action tiles, even if you have already passed.
Rival Actions
Each rival action is like a player action, but the game focuses on the impacts that these actions have on you . The rival expedition does not gain or spend resource tokens. They never get Fear cards. However, they do collect points.
Note: The symbols on the action tiles are not exactly like the effects described on the back of this rulebook. They are simply reminders of the rules detailed in this section.
Dig at a Site Your rival wants to keep you from getting the depicted resource. Look for a site offering that resource and put a rival archaeologist on the space there. (If all such spaces are occupied, your rival does nothing.)
If there are multiple such spaces, your rival chooses one with the following priorities:
◊ A site in a higher row is preferred over a site in a lower row.
◊ Between sites in the same row, your rival prefers the site farther on the left or the right, as determined by the decision arrow. (See box below.)
The Decision Arrow When the rival expedition has to choose between two or more things, it always chooses the leftmost or the rightmost, depending on whether the arrow on the rival action stack is pointing left or right. If you need a tiebreaker for the final action tile, when the stack is empty, use the arrow on the tile at the bottom of the used tiles pile.
Keep all the rival action tiles oriented with the dark edge at the bottom so you will have the same number of left and right arrows.
20Discover a New Site Your rival discovers a or site, depending on the round. If there are multiple undiscovered sites:
◊ First narrow the choices down to one row. Among sites, give preference to the bottom row.
◊ Then use the decision arrow to choose left or right.
Put a rival archaeologist on the chosen space. Move the idol token(s) to your rival’s board. If the face-up idol is one they don’t have yet, it goes face up on the corresponding space. If it is a duplicate, place it face down on the space on the right labeled -1. Multiple idols can stack on the -1 space. If your rival gets a face-down idol, put it on the -1 space, ignoring its other side.
The newly discovered site gets a site tile, as you would expect. The site gets a guardian only in certain rounds, as indicated on the action tile.
The green version of this action does nothing in round V.
Research Advance the rival’s magnifying glass to the next row. If you need to choose a space, use the decision arrow.
If there is a research bonus tile there, remove it from the game. If it’s the Lost Temple space, remove the top tile from the bonus stack.
If your rival cannot advance because they have already reached the Lost Temple, give them a 6-point tile instead. Use the decision arrow to choose the left or right stack, if both still have tiles.
Take the topmost assistant from the highest stack on the supply board. If stacks are tied, use the decision arrow. Remove the assistant from the game. Snake Temple board: When your rival’s token reaches the assistant rescue space, they take the topmost assistant on that space. This is in addition to the assistant they take from the supply board. The green version of this action does nothing in round V.
Overcome a Guardian If there is a guardian on a site occupied by your rival, move it to your rival’s board. Use the same tiebreakers as those for Dig at a Site: prefer the higher row, use the decision arrow if necessary.
If your rival has no archaeologist on a site with a guardian, your rival Researches instead, but does not take an assistant from the supply board. (However, on the Snake Temple side, they will rescue an assistant if they reach that space.) The green version of this action does nothing in round V.Buy an Item In the green version of this action, your rival takes the item with the lowest point value. In the red version, your rival takes the highest. Break ties with the decision arrow. Put the card on your rival’s board. Finish the action by refilling the card row.
Buy an Artifact As you may have guessed, this is just like buying an item.
End of Round
At the end of the round, return all rival archaeologists to their board. Your rival does not gain Fear cards . Shuffle the action stack face down, and your rival is ready to go again. Your rival will be the starting player in every round, so the starting player marker is not needed.
Scoring The rival expedition scores points for the position of their magnifying glass, for temple tiles, for guardians overcome, and for cards purchased, as you would expect.
They score 3 points for each unique, face-up idol. The idols in the -1 stack give them only 2 points each.
You score your points as usual. Compare your points with your rival’s. Whoever has more points wins. Solo Campaign
Want to play a solo campaign? Check out www.arnak.game !
◊ Multiple unique scenarios.
◊ New goals.
◊ What happened to the lost expedition of Professor Kutil?
21Appendix
Notes on Selected Cards
Army Knife
Choose two different options: Army Knife
You choose two of the four benefits depicted. You are not allowed to choose only one and take it twice.
Exile this card to overcome a on a site not occupied by any other player.Bear Trap
Bear Trap
You can use the trap on a site with or without your archaeologist. The restriction is that no one else can be there. (It’s a safety precaution.)
Gain for each on sites you occupy and each you have overcome, up to 3.Bow and Arrows
Bow and Arrows
Your maximum possible gain is . Gain for each you have, up to 3.Brush
Brush
All idols on your player board count, whether they are in slots or not. Your maximum possible gain is .
Fishing Rod
Buy with a discount of , include the top card of the item deck.
Precision Compass
Buy with a discount of , include the top
card of the artifact deck.
Fishing Rod Precision Compass
Unlike a normal card-buying action, you can do this even if you can’t afford any card in the card row. Reveal the top card of the relevant deck. It is one of the cards you can buy. You can also decide to buy no card and turn it face down again. If you choose to buy a different card, the top card goes into the row when you refill it, as usual.
Exile this card to research with your token for free.Journal
Journal This card applies only to your notebook, not your magnifying glass. Don’t forget that your notebook cannot move above your magnifying glass. Ancient Wine
Use the effect on the gold side of one available on the supply board. Use the effect on the silver side of one available on the supply board.Coconut Flask
Ancient Wine Coconut Flask
The artifact’s effect counts as your main action for the turn, even if the assistant’s effect is a free action. The assistant is not exhausted after being used on the supply board. If you use this to generate a travel value, that value is wasted unless you use it in a free action before the end of your turn. Note that the effect cannot be applied to an assistant on the assistant rescue space of the Snake Temple research track. Draw up to 3 cards and keep 1. You may return 1 of them to the top of your deck. the rest.Crystal Earring
Crystal Earring
First decide how many cards to draw, then draw that many. Of those, keep one in your hand. If you drew more than one, one may be returned to the top of your deck. Any remaining cards that you drew must then be placed in your play area with no effect. Exchange one of your with one available on the supply board. The new one is the same level and refreshed.Decorated Horn
Decorated Horn
If you exchange a silver assistant, your new assistant is also silver. If you exchange a gold assistant, you flip your new assistant to its gold side. The assistant you put on the supply board should be set to its silver side. Move from a site you occupy to an unocuppied or site with no . Activate that site.Guardian’s Crown
Guardian’s Crown
This artifact cannot move a guardian to a site that has not been discovered. An unoccupied site is one with no archaeologists. If any of the spaces on a site is occupied, the entire site is considered occupied. Return a placed to your board. Each of your travel icons counts as this round.Guardian’s Ocarina
Guardian’s Ocarina If both your archaeologists are on your board, you may still play this card to turn all your travel icons into . If a card has 2 travel icons, they are turned into . Research with a discount of .Idol of Ara-Anu Research with a discount of either or .Inscribed Blade
Idol of Ara-Anu Inscribed Blade This discount can be applied to buying a temple tile. Exile the rightmost in the card row. Gain any from exile to the bottom of your deck. Ornate Hammer
Ornate Hammer Take the rightmost item in the card row and put it in the pile for exiled items. Then you may take one item from the pile of exiled items. You do not pay its cost. Put it on the bottom of your deck. At the end of your turn, refill the card row. Draw up to 2 cards from the bottom of your deck. Keep 1, the other.Obsidian Earring
Obsidian Earring First you decide whether to draw 1 or 2 cards, then you draw that many from the bottom of your deck. If you draw 1, it goes to your hand. If you draw 2, look at them, put one in your hand, and put the other into your play area, face up, ignoring its effect and travel value. Pathfinder’s Sandals
Relocate a placed to a site and activate it. Relocate a placed to a or site and activate it.Pathfinder’s Staff
Pathfinder’s Sandals Pathfinder’s Staff Your archaeologist can be relocated from any site. The effect only restricts the types of sites it can be relocated to .
22Don’t Forget!
◊ Y ou can always pay to buy a .
◊ You can’t advance your token above your token.
◊ Every row of the research track has an effect. You resolve the effect regardless of whether you take a bonus tile.
◊ When you upgrade your assistant, you also refresh it.
◊ When you use the effect, you can exile a card from your hand or your play area .
◊ Gain fear, then shuffle. At the end of the round, you take your archaeologists back – and potentially gain Fear cards from guardians – before shuffling the cards in your play area.
◊ Shuffled cards go to the bottom of your deck. And only at the end of the round – you shouldn’t be shuffling cards at any other time.
◊ When you buy an item, it goes to the bottom of your deck. This means it will be above all those cards you shuffle at the end of the round.
Frequently Asked Questions
◊ Ca n I have more than 5 cards in my hand? Yes. The hand limit applies only when drawing cards at the beginning of a round.
◊ Is there a way to buy an item and use it later in the same round? Yes. When you buy an item it goes to the bottom of your deck. Certain card-drawing effects might allow you to draw it. Once it’s in your hand, you can use it on any turn.
◊ Can I shuffle my deck during play? No. You shuffle your deck only at the beginning of the game. At the end of each round, you shuffle all cards in your play area and put them at the bottom of your deck. No other shuffling is allowed.
◊ But what if my deck runs out of cards? If your deck is out of cards, you can’t draw any more. The cards in your play area will not return to your deck until the end of the round. If you buy an item, just put it on the space for your deck – that item is now on the bottom (and the top) of your deck.
◊ What’s the difference between the effect and “relocate”? The two are completely different. The effect follows the rules of an action, either Dig at a Site or Discover a New Site. It requires you to use an archaeologist from your player board, and you must pay the travel cost unless the card says otherwise. By contrast, you can relocate an archaeologist only if it is already on a site, and it can’t go to an undiscovered site. You don’t pay a travel cost to relocate .
◊ Does this card let me move another player’s archaeologist? No. There are no effects in the game that would allow you to affect another player’s cards, figures, or tokens.Shorthand Notation
The following icons are used as shorthand notation for various game components:
◊ an item card
◊ an artifact card
◊ a guardian tile
◊ an assistant
◊ an idol tile
◊ one of your archaeologist figures
Free Actions During your turn, you may perform any number of free actions before, during, or after your main action. You may have the following free actions available:
◊ All card effects marked with the symbol are free actions.
◊ Putting an idol in a slot is a free action.
◊ Using a guardian’s boon is a free action.
◊ Using an assistant’s effect is a free action, except for the assistant that lets you buy a card with a discount.
Reserve Tiles The ×3 multiplier tiles are intended for use if you are close to running out of tokens. Each token on the tile counts as 3. Tokens on the supply board are not intended to be limited. The other side of the tile is a fear tile. If you are supposed to take a Fear card when the Fear deck is empty, you take a fear tile instead. It will be worth -2 points during final scoring. Keep the fear tile in your play area. If you have a chance to exile a card from your play area, you may exile the fear tile instead.
In playtesting, we needed these tiles only in extremely rare situations. Depending on your play style, your group might never need them.
23Effects
Many effects simply depict the tokens you gain: Gain the indicated tokens. Gain the indicated tokens. Gain the indicated tokens. Gain a Fear card and the indicated tokens. You must take a Fear card from the board and put it face up in your play area. (Ignore its travel value.) If no Fear cards are available, take a fear tile, as explained on page 23. You may pay the cost on the left to gain the benefit on the right. If you cannot pay the cost or do not wish to, then you do not get the benefit. Pay the cost to choose one of the two tokens. Make one of these two trades: OR On an artifact card, this is a reminder that the effect costs 1 . However, this cost applies only when you play it from your hand, not when you buy it. You pay this cost by putting one of the cards in your hand face up into your play area, ignoring the card’s travel value and effect. If you have no cards left in your hand, you cannot pay this cost, and thus cannot gain the benefit of the effect. You may draw a card. If your deck is empty, then this has no effect. You may choose a card in your hand or in your play area and send it to exile (as explained on page 13). You may draw a card. Then you may exile a card in your hand or in your play area. Note that each part of the effect is optional. You may draw a card. Then you must put a card in your hand face up into your play area, ignoring its travel value and its effect. You may refresh one of your assistants. See page 16. This icon denotes that the effect does not count as your main action for the turn. You can play as many free actions as you want before, after, and even during your main action.Keywords
activate a site: When you activate a site, you use the site’s effect. You do not need an archaeologist there and other players’ archaeologists do not block you from activating the site, unless the card says otherwise. You do not pay any travel cost. You cannot activate a site that has not been discovered yet.
activate a site tile: Two cards allow you to activate the top site tile in one of the stacks. Simply resolve the tile’s effect, as when activating a site. discount: Resolve the effect as though you had the tokens or travel value depicted in the discount. For example, a discount of means that a cost of is reduced to . A discount of means that one icon in a travel cost is covered. (A discount of , however, has no effect on travel costs that don’t have .) Discounts will not reduce a cost below zero and they will not carry over to other actions.exile: Send the card to exile, as explained on page 13. Alternatively, an effect might specify that you take a card from exile.exile this card to: When you play the card for its effect, it goes to exile instead of your play area. gain : When you gain an item, it means you do not pay the cost. Unless otherwise stated, this is identical to the Buy a Card action, except you skip the step in which the cost is paid.
occupied by you: You occupy a site if you have an archaeologist figure there.
pass to gain: To gain the benefit, you must pass. You will get no more turns for the remainder of the round.
relocate: Without paying a travel cost, pick up one of your archaeologists that is already on a site and move it to an unoccupied space at a different site that has already been discovered. The effect might specify additional restrictions.
unoccupied site: A site is unoccupied if no one has an archaeologist figure there. (Guardian tiles do not count as occupying a site.) An occupied site might still have an unoccupied space even though the site is considered “occupied”.
Action Effects
The effects below allow you to perform an action. Normally it would be the main action of your turn, but here it is considered simply part of the effect. You may immediately take a Dig at a Site or Discover a New Site action, if you have an archaeologist on your player board. The effect may specify special benefits or limitations. You may immediately overcome a guardian without paying the cost depicted on the guardian tile. This effect applies only to a guardian on a site where you have an archaeologist. You may immediately buy an artifact or item from the card row. The price is reduced by the amount indicated. Perform the Buy an Artifact action, skipping the step where you pay its cost, but do resolve its effect. Perform the Buy an Item action, skipping the step where you pay its cost.Starting Resources
Player 1: Player 2: Player 3: Player 4: Starting Deck
Funding Funding Exploration Exploration Fear
Fear
11732422 / NOB200902