Overview Lost Ruins of Arnak puts the players into the hiking boots of adventurers exploring the mysterious island of Arnak. Within the island’s verdant jungles hide mysterious ruins, ruins which hold valuable treasures and even more valuable knowledge about the lost civilizations that built them. Using a combination of deck building and worker placement, players will take turns sending their Archaeologists to the various areas of the board to collect resources, explore temples, fight the guardians that reside within, and record their newfound knowledge for posterity. All of these things earn the players points and the person with the most points at the end wins. When the game begins, every player has an identical set of cards that can be used for their abilities or for the icons which will be needed for them to travel to the different sites sprinkled around the board. Traveling to one site, for instance, may cost the player three compasses and one boat icon while travelling to a different one may call for six compasses and two automobile icons. The basic starter cards provide either compasses or coins in addition to their travel icons (although a card can only be used for one or the other). Additional cards will be revealed and be available for purchase that can be used to bolster the players’ decks. These cards have more powerful abilities that will enable players to accomplish greater things more quickly on their turns. In addition to sending their explorers to the hidden temples and battling the guardians that protect each one, the players will also be turning some of their focus to the Research track where new discoveries are chronicled for victory points. The Research track is divided into tiers. Moving from one tier to the next requires specific resources. If a player is the first player to reach a certain tier, they will also earn valuable Research Bonuses. The higher you are able to ascend on this track by the end of the game, the more victory points you will earn. Of course this is a high level overview of Lost Ruins of Arnak . If you’d like to learn more about how the game is played, then click on the bar below. Otherwise, feel free to skip ahead to the Thoughts